We're in a series right now that I pray is life changing on how to manage your emotions.
Pastor, why would you do it?
Because I'm your pastor and I'm your friend and I love you.
And I want to help you because we're going into the holiday season.
And there's more suicides in the holiday season than any other time of the year.
Right now, our ministry, if I'm lying, I'm frying almost every week we deal with people who are suicidal here at church on the rock.
I think social media, and believe me, I'm for social media when we use it for God and His glory.
But in the bad sense, we compare, we compete, we see people's best self on social media.
Jealousy, envy, greed takes place.
We feel inferior, like a loser or fairy, because we can't go where they went, have what they have, do what they do.
And so because of that, we're seeing more suicides than ever before.
This is called the age of anxiety.
that we're in right now.
So that's why I would teach on it.
We started last week.
If you weren't with us, go to our website and get the sermon there and follow along.
And then I want to encourage you today.
Take notes, follow along.
If you don't take notes, just follow along and re-watch this.
Rewatch this because it takes seven times.
Psychologists tell us, we have to hear it seven times at least before we'll ever kind of sort of maybe stick.
So we're going to get right into it.
How do we manage our emotions?
And we found out last week that our emotions are a result of our thoughts.
So if we want to control our emotions, and there's seven deadly emotions, and then there's seven healthy emotions, according to psychologists.
And we don't want those deadly emotions.
We want to know how to manage our emotions.
And we found out that our emotions are a result of our thoughts.
In other words, what we think we begin to feel and what we feel becomes our emotion and out of our emotions comes our behavior.
So if you want to change somebody, all change starts on the inside.
If you want to change your mate or your child or your teenager or your toddler, you want to change them.
It doesn't start with their behavior.
It starts with their thought process.
Golden nugget, all change starts on the inside, not the outside.
We work so hard to change our circumstances, but if we'll change, they'll change.
If we'll change, they'll change.
So all good change, all lasting change starts on the inside.
Now, we know that God is Trinity, right?
At Church of the Rock, we believe in the Trinity.
God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit.
And then we know as human beings that we have, we're tricotomy, we're three parts.
We are a spirit, we have a soul, and we live in a body.
We are spirit, we have a soul, and we live in our body.
Your spirit is the real you.
When you have a funeral, the body was laying there, but the real spirit is a person.
If they knew Christ, they'd go to heaven.
If they didn't, they'd go to hell.
There's only two places.
So the real us, and they tell us that our spirit looks like we look physically.
So you are spirit, you have a soul, you live in a body.
I've done this for a long time, and a lot of times I see Christians interchange spirit and soul.
They think it's the same thing.
It is not the same thing.
So notice that God's trinity, your trichotomy, and then soul is also three parts.
Your soul has three parts.
It's your mind, it's your will, and it's your emotions.
So your soul has three parts, and they are what your mind, your will, and your emotions.
So notice that emotions are only a third part of your soul.
that only a third part of your soul, which is a third part of you, so that let's me know that we are to control our emotions.
They're not to control us.
They're a gift from God and they're wonderful when we control them and they don't control us.
God has emotions, God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit, all have emotions.
He gave us emotions.
It's a gift from God as long as we control them and they don't control us.
But notice there's a small part of our life.
The one third of you, there are one third of that.
So we need to learn how to manage our emotions and not let them control us.
All change starts in my thought life.
As a person thinks, so are they.
Powerful golden nugget that can change your life.
What you think about, you bring about.
What have you been thinking about all week long?
Job in the Bible, he says, the thing that I thought and that I feared came upon me, the thing that I thought came upon me, thoughts are magnets, they attract.
Good thoughts bring good emotions, bad thoughts bring bad emotions.
How many of you know that good's better than bad?
All starts, all change starts in my thought life.
So every week when you come here, I'm trying to brainwash you.
Will you forgive me?
I'm trying to brainwash you.
Because out there, it's hard.
Out there, it's ungodly.
Out there, it's negative, cynical, critical.
Out there, they want you to live small.
You come here and here, and I tell you, I want you to live big.
I try to change the way you think.
Because if I can change the way you think, I can help you change your life and your behavior.
You see, you heard the lie.
People tell you, you'll never change.
That's a lie.
You can change.
People tell you, you always be this way.
You know, my own story, many of you heard it.
When I was growing up as a teenager in the early junior high years, you know, I was born again, but I didn't have a renewed mind.
Will you give me some grace and mercy on that?
What did you do pass it?
None of your business, what I did is under the blood, amen.
But when I, especially when I was in junior high, I had family relatives say to me, you're just like your grandpa Ike.
You're just like your grandpa Ike, Ike Blunt, short for Isaac.
You're just like your grandpa Ike.
You're going to grow up to be just like him.
He was tall, he was thin, like him collected, light hair, got into trouble, womanizer, getting into trouble this day.
You're going to grow up just like him.
Well, you know what?
I decided one day as I grew and returned the Lord and got knowledge, you're delivered through knowledge, that that generational curse can be broken.
Yeah, that generational curse that they told you you're gonna be like your dad, your mom, your mother, your grandparents, your aunt, that can be broken.
Behavior can change.
Behavior, that should excite somebody.
You can change.
I can change.
But it all starts with our thought, life.
Because our emotions are a result of what we're thinking.
What we're thinking, we're feeling.
What you think about, you're gonna bring about.
Change your thoughts.
Look at the screen.
change your life.
If I can get you to change your thinking, get rid of that stinkin' thinkin' and the hardening of the attitudes, if I can get you to have a neck up, check up from the neck up, if I can get you to think differently when you leave here, I'll help you change your life this week.
Your life will go in the right direction.
It'll go in the same direction that God wants it to go for you.
Thoughts control my life, look at the screen, but I can control my thoughts.
Thoughts control my life, but I can control my thoughts.
What you think about, you bring about.
The big idea is be intentional with your thought life.
Be intentional with your thought life.
And I know a lot of people think this is just hocus pocus, it's new age, it's Bible.
As a person thinks, so are they.
You're to meditate in the Word of God day and night and night and day.
You're to renew your mind, your thought life every day, the renewing of their mind.
This is B-I-B-L-E.
This is a commandment.
It's not an option.
If we want to know God's will, it all starts with our thought life.
So being intentional with our thought life, John 14, let's go there real quick, John 14, and verse one, two, and three, Jesus, John 14, 15, and 16 is the Last Supper.
John 14, 15, and 16 is the Last Supper.
You see the pictures of the Last Supper?
This is what Jesus was talking about.
In John 14, 15, 16, and actually 17.
So it's really important then that we understand the next day he's gonna get crucified.
The next day he's gonna get crucified.
These are his last words.
His team is panicking, they're worried, they're fearful, they're upset, they're anxious,
I know what's going to happen.
If what he says is going to happen, what's going to happen to them.
There's all kinds of anxiety and worry and panic and fear and discouragement and depression.
The seven deadly emotions.
How do we deal with that?
Jesus told us.
Look at verse one.
Let not your heart be troubled.
So if I can let it be troubled, I can let it not.
Am I right?
What this means is Jesus said, guys, team, boys, you got control over your thought life.
You're to manage your emotions because your emotions are a result of your thought life.
Change your thoughts and you change your feelings, you change your emotions, you change your behavior and your habits.
So he says, take control of your thoughts, guys.
I know you're freaked out.
I know I'm telling you that tomorrow I'm going to go to the cross be crucified and die.
You don't know what you're going to do.
You think your ministry is over.
You're going to go back to your occupation.
You're upset.
But guys, listen, don't let your heart be troubled.
Don't panic.
Don't freak out.
Don't lose your cool.
Side note, I can't be in faith and freaked out at the same time.
I'm going to say it again.
I can't be in faith and freaked out at the same time.
Faith rests.
Faith is not restless.
So the worst thing you can do when you're in a problem, a difficulty, a challenge is freak out.
Because the minute you freak out, lose your call and your emotions go crazy, you're out of the faith zone.
You're out of the faith zone.
So you got to do whatever you can do to get back in the faith zone and get control over your emotions.
I'm going to show you how to do that this morning.
Let not your heart be troubled.
You believe in God, believe also in me.
So number one, he says, guys, control your thought life, and here's a good lesson.
Here's a good assignment.
Think about me.
You see that?
Believe also in me.
He's saying, think about me.
So that's number one we looked at it last week.
Think about Jesus.
When's the last time you just stopped and thought about Jesus?
What he did for you?
What he's done for you?
What he's doing for you?
What he's planning for you?
How good he is?
His amazing grace.
His love, His compassion, you're on His mind all the time.
You see, what we think about, watch, what we think about, we become.
What we think about, we become.
Aren't we to become like Jesus?
Not a rock star in the church, but aren't we to become like Jesus?
Doesn't Christian mean little Christ?
Doesn't Christian mean Christ follower?
Isn't that the objective of church?
Isn't that the objective of the Christian life?
Is to become more like
Jesus.
So a good way to start is what you think about, you become.
See that with me?
What I think about, I become.
Again, what I think about, I become.
So if I think about Jesus, I'll become more like Jesus.
And then verse two, he went on to tell them what to think about specifically in my father's house are many mansions.
If it were not so, I would have told you, but I go prepare a place for you.
Number two, he said, think about your future.
He said, think about eternity.
He said, think about heaven.
He said, you're to be heavenly minded.
I don't believe that you can be so heavenly minded, you're no earthly good.
I don't believe that.
That's a myth.
I believe the more heavenly minded we are, the more motivated we are to lay up treasure in heaven.
The more heavenly minded we are,
They're more motivated we are to serve God and lay up treasure in heaven.
So he's saying, guys, let not your heart be troubled.
Control your thought life because your thoughts determine your feelings, your feelings, your emotions.
If you can control your thoughts, you can control your emotions.
Guys, let me help you out.
Think about me.
I'm your Lord and Savior, Jesus.
You think about Jesus, you'll become like him.
Number two, think about heaven.
Think about the hereafter.
Think about you're just a pilgrim.
passing through this land.
This is not your home.
Your home is in heaven.
He's preparing a mansion for you, where you'll rule and reign with him throughout eternity, right?
And then verse three, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and I'll receive you to myself.
Now watch this, that where I am, you will be also.
Now watch this, where I go and prepare a place for you,
I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, you may be also.
Number three, he said, think about others.
He's thinking about them.
Think about others, how we can be a blessing, how we can edify, how we can benefit, how we can equip, how we can encourage, how we can add value.
So he gave them three things.
He said, you've got to change the way you're thinking because you're losing your emotion.
You're freaking out here at the Last Supper.
So he gave them three things to start thinking about, eternity, Jesus, and others.
If I can't control my mouth, now let's go to the second point.
So say it with me, my thoughts determine my emotions.
When I change your emotions, change your thoughts, right?
Number two, my mouth.
If I can't control my mouth, I can't control my emotions.
If I can't control my mouth, I can't control my emotions."
So not only does my thoughts determine my emotions, my mouth, the words that I'm speaking, controls my emotions.
Did you know the Bible says in the book of James that the most powerful member of your body is not your ear, it's not your eye, it's not your ankle, it's not your foot?
It's not your elbow.
Did you know the book of James in chapter three says, the most powerful member of your body is your tongue, your mouth?
Did you know that what we're saying determines the direction of our life?
What has been the most dominant thought you have thought in the last seven days?
I don't say it out loud because we may have to lay hands on you and praise the Lord.
But just think about it now.
Think with me, last seven days, what's the most dominant thought you've been thinking?
because that thought is a magnet, and that thought is a mother to your emotions, and that thought determines the direction of your life.
And that thought will attract what you're thinking about, you bring about.
So we're gonna be more intentional about what we're thinking, right?
Think bad, bad emotions, think good, good emotions.
So we know our thought life, but now we're moving into my mouth, because death and life is in the power, your tongue has power, death,
and life is in the power, your tongue has power.
James says, your tongue is the most powerful member of your body.
Your ear does determine your life, your eye doesn't determine your life, your foot doesn't determine your life, but your tongue determines the direction of your life.
So if we believe that and we do at church on the rock, then Holy Spirit help me to manage my big fat mouth.
If I can't control my mouth, I can't control my emotions.
Look at the screen family, Matthew 6, verse 31.
We're delivered through knowledge.
High achievers are hungry all the time for more books, more tapes, more CDs, more webinars, more college, more university, more counseling, more cohort, more mentors.
They're constantly wanting more knowledge because knowledge is how we get delivered from one level to the next level.
When applied, when applied.
So what's this now, Revelation?
Matthew 631, the be attitudes.
Jesus giving the be attitudes.
These are the attitudes that should be.
Can I stop and just say you're awesome?
You guys are awesome.
Wow.
Okay, let's look at this.
Therefore, take no thought saying.
I'll say it one more time.
Therefore don't take the thought by saying it.
Therefore don't take that thought by saying it.
So notice it has no power, the thought until I say it.
The thought has no power until I say it.
So if I don't say it, the thought will die, eventually die and leave my life.
Are you listening to what I'm saying?
You take a thought
with your mouth.
You take your thought with a word.
Death in life is in the power of the tongue.
You take a thought when you say it.
So it's better sometimes not to say what you're feeling.
It's better.
Now, I wanna conclude this message with five points on what do you do when you can't keep going?
Five points on what do you do
And I've been there, maybe you have a, at the end of the day, you are emotionally drained.
What do you do when you're emotionally drained and you have no more willpower?
I hope I share that with you in just a few minutes, five ways to do that.
But I wanna bring this out, that what you're thinking, you're feeling, what you're saying will release what you're feeling.
What you're saying will release what you feel.
You take a thought when you say it.
So if you don't say it,
you're not gonna release the power of the thought in your life.
Oh, that's powerful.
So if I can't control my mouth, I can't control my emotions.
And there's James, and we're gonna go through that real quick.
So sit with me, my mind, my mouth, my emotions.
Whoa.
So if I'm sick and tired of being up and down, in and out, unstable, inconsistent, can't control myself, then what do I need you to do?
Look at what I'm thinking.
and look at what I'm saying because my thoughts determine my emotions, but my thoughts will become alive until I say them.
So I've got to guard my mind and I've got to guard my mouth if I want a better life, if I want more stability, if I want more consistency, if I want to advance and keep on keeping on.
Now, Lamentations chapter three, are you ready for this?
I mean, I had people after the first service, I was out in the lobby, and this is what they were talking about.
They were talking about this more than anything else in the whole 30-minute message, right here.
Are you sure you're ready for this?
We're delivered through revelation knowledge.
Okay, watch.
Lamentations 3.19, just thinking of my troubles.
Challenge to you, is that all you've been thinking about all week?
troubles.
I'm trying to help you have a mind shift and stop thinking about your troubles.
And do what we sang a while ago, Daniel let us in, is surrender them all to him.
Just thinking, now I've said already, the premise, the thesis is that what you're thinking controls your emotions.
And what you're saying releases the thoughts that control your emotions.
So I need to guard my big fat mouth and my mind.
I can't let it run loose.
I can't just put my foot in my mouth.
Come on, somebody.
Okay?
Just thinking of my troubles, just thinking, and my lonely wandering makes me feel miserable.
Just thinking, and can I just say this?
Oh, God's children got troubles.
We all got troubles.
I got troubles.
You got, not me faster.
Meet me out in the lobby, I'll share some of my troubles.
All I got is healing God troubles.
Are you saying ignore our troubles?
Nope.
Are you saying run from our troubles?
Are you saying just to dismiss them and say new age, Christian science, they're not there.
No, I'm not saying that at all.
But I'm saying don't dwell on them.
Don't live there.
Don't give real estate in your head for them.
Just thinking.
Just thinking of my troubles and my lonely wandering makes me feel thinking, feeling miserable.
Next verse.
That's all I ever think about.
What?
My troubles.
That's all I ever think about.
What I don't have, where I can't go, what I can't do.
That's all I ever think about adversity and challenge and pain and experiences and difficult.
That's all I ever think about, Pastor.
Those have done me wrong, have hurt me, abused me, misused me, put me down, called me names, be little of me, wouldn't help me.
Oh, what was me, Pastor?
I got full of troubles.
That's all I ever think about.
And I am... You see the screen?
Is it up there?
And I am... Well, so depression is linked.
Now, I know there's some medical issues there as well, could be, but depression is linked to what you're thinking.
Loneliness is connected to what you're thinking, right?
We read that in the previous verse.
Feeling miserable, what a quit, can't keep going.
Emotionally drained is connected to what you are thinking.
This is not blunt, this is Bible, this is Lamentations chapter three.
So notice, let's go back guys to the previous verse there.
Just thinking of my troubles and my loneliness wandering makes me
feel miserable."
Next verse.
That's all I ever think about.
You see, some people, I mean, that's all they want to talk about is negativity.
What's wrong with the world?
What's wrong with you?
What's wrong with their husband?
Why?
What's wrong with their job?
What's wrong with their church?
No wonder they're manic depressive.
No wonder they're miserable.
And here's what I know.
I've been counseling for 50 years.
Miserable people make you feel miserable.
And miserable people want you to feel.
Don't be looking at him right now.
Don't do it.
That's all I ever think about.
And I feel depressed how to manage your emotions.
Verse 21, then I want everybody that I'm talking to and all the replays.
And I hope you listen to this over again seven times.
I want you to have a then moment.
It's an all moment.
It's an awakening moment.
It's a, wow, things are going to change now.
Moment and then I remember something.
And then I remember something that fills me with hope.
You see, people will know hope, have no power in the present to get through what they're going through.
And if I'm walking by my feelings, my feelings lie to me.
Did you know that?
Our feelings lie to us.
You're not to believe every thought.
Don't believe every thought.
Don't believe that thought that says you're no good, that you're a failure, that you're downright loser.
Don't believe that thought.
That thought's a lie.
Every thought is not the truth.
Every feeling is not the truth.
And so notice he says, then I remember something, the power of remembering.
This is why journaling is so important.
I remembered something that filled me with hope, not depression, not loneliness, not miserable, not empty, emotional, not drained.
No, what do you remember, dude?
What do you remember, bro?
What do you remember, sis?
The Lord's kind.
The Lord's kindness never fails.
If it had not been so merciful and kind, I would have been destroyed.
I wouldn't have made it.
I would have given up.
But oh, I remember when He rescued me.
I remember when He intervened for me.
I remember when He showed up for me.
I didn't deserve it.
It was His mercy.
It was His kindness.
It was His grace.
I remember when I was down and out and depressed and dejected and deranged.
But He spoke a word to me that He loved me, that He was for me.
They didn't plan for me.
Oh, hope.
So notice what you think about can empty you or what you think about
can fill you up with hope.
Hopelessness or hope is result of what you're thinking about, how to manage my emotions.
But we're not done yet.
As the team comes out, look at this.
The Lord, I remember this.
I'm not going to focus on the people who lied to you, who deceived you, who used you, who abused you, who hurt you.
I'm not going to dwell on the people that fail.
I'm going to dwell on the Lord.
He can always be trusted.
Oh, he's the same yesterday, today and forever.
He's stable.
He's steadfast.
God's consistent.
He never changes.
He's the Lord.
God, I can depend on you, God.
God, you will never disappoint me.
God, I'm gonna refocus because what I'm focusing on determines what I'm feeling.
What I'm focusing on determines what I'm feeling.
What I'm thinking about and what I'm saying gives power to my emotions, good or bad.
Oh Lord, I remember God, you were so kind.
I remember God, you were so loving.
You were so merciful.
I remember God that you could be trusted.
And God, I remember this, every morning I got up at your mercy.
It was due every morning.
And I realized that while I was sleeping, you weren't sleeping.
I realized that you're the Lord and you never sleep or know this lumber.
I realized God that you are working on my behalf all night long.
And I get up today with a new frame of mind, a new mindset.
God, that your mercy is new every morning.
Whoa, we're not done yet.
Look at the next verse.
Deep in my heart, I say,
Deep in my heart, I say, deep in my heart, I say, I say, I say, I say, I say, I say words, thoughts, I say, I say, deep in my heart, I say, what are you saying to yourself?
What's your self-talk?
What are you saying to yourself?
I'm a loser, no one would wanna marry me, no one would wanna hire me.
I'll never get a good job, I'll never get out of debt, I'll never get a house.
What are you saying to yourself?
He said, deep on the inside, I say, I say,
Words control your emotions.
I say, here's what I say.
If I could just get married, that's all I need.
Are you with me?
If I just get married, that's all I need.
This is a joke, everybody.
Are you with me?
I'm testing to see if you're here still.
If I just get married, that's all I need.
Meet me in the lobby.
I've got counseling for you.
If I just get that job, that's all I need.
No, no, no.
The people that were in your last place, they're gonna travel to you in a different body in the next place.
Oh, if I just get that new house, the taxes are crazy, and that's that it down.
Oh, if I just get that new car, the sales tax on that thing, and the gas tax?
No, no, no.
Deep in my heart, I said, the Lord is all I need.
Revelation knowledge, I don't need anything else but you God.
I don't need anything or anyone else but you God.
God, I need a revelation of you today.
I realized, I realized God that you, I was depressed when I was focusing on my trouble.
But then when I changed what I was thinking, focusing and saying, hope came God, strength came God.
where I was drained, I got filled back up, God, and I realized, God, you are all I need.
So God, I'm gonna surrender everything to you today.
It's yours in Jesus' name.
I grew up in the similes of God denomination, Pentecost, and we sang this song growing up all the time.
He's all I need.
I won't sing it because you'll leave early, but he's all I need.
Jesus is all.
Some of you are spiritual like me.
I can hear you sing.
Jesus is all I need.
Boy, that right there will change your life and help you manage your emotions.
If I helped you, give the Lord a thank you.
I'm out of time.
Thank you Lord.
Would you bow your heads with me?
Let's have a corporate prayer here and online.
Maybe you're the place in your life where you visualize, Pastor, I get it.
Jesus is all I need.
I want to turn my life over to Him.
Today, I want to surrender my loneliness.
I want to surrender my miserable seven deadly emotions, what I'm going through, depression.
I want to surrender it.
I don't feel adequate enough.
I never feel like I achieve enough.
I want to give it all to Him today, Pastor.
I want to surrender my life to Jesus because he's all I really need.
And I need him to help me manage my thoughts and my words and my focus.
Pray for me.
It could be the first time or rededication, but we're going to pray a prayer right now, corporately.
It's in the Bible.
Church, let's lead people to Christ.
Say it with me.
Everybody, Heavenly Father, I repent.
I believe Jesus Christ.
Thanks for watching this week's message.
One way for you to connect your church in Iraq is through the goddess for you classes.
These classes are designed to teach you about the culture, mission, and values of church in Iraq and about your God given this time.
You can take these classes anytime by going to our website at cotr.org slash goddess for you.
And if you want to know about all the incredible things we have here at church in Iraq, make sure to visit our website at cotr.org.
And never forget,
God is for you.